---
title: Setup
categories: [Blogging]
tags: [writing]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---
This tutorial will guide you how to write a post in the Chirpy template, and it’s worth reading even if you’ve used Jekyll before, as many features require specific variables to be set.

## Naming and Path
Create a new file named YYYY-MM-DD-TITLE.EXTENSION and put it in the _post/ of the root directory. Please note that the EXTENSION must be one of md and markdown. From v2.4.1, you can create sub-directories under _posts/ to categorize posts.

## Front Matter
Basically, you need to fill the Front Matter as below at the top of the post:

```yaml
---
title: TITLE
date: YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS +/-TTTT
categories: [TOP_CATEGORIE, SUB_CATEGORIE]
tags: [TAG]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---
```
*Note: The posts’ layout has been set to post by default, so there is no need to add the variable layout in Front Matter block.*

## Timezone of date
In order to accurately record the release date of a post, you should not only setup the timezone of _config.yml but also provide the the post’s timezone in field date of its Front Matter block. Format: +/-TTTT, e.g. +0800.

## Categories and Tags
The categories of each post is designed to contain up to two elements, and the number of elements in tags can be zero to infinity.For instance:

```yaml
---
categories: [Animal, Insect]
tags: [bee]
---
```
## Author Information
The author information of the post usually does not need to be filled in the Front Matter , they will be obtained from variables social.name and the first entry of social.links of the configuration file by default. But you can also override it as follows:

Adding author information in _data/authors.yml (If your website doesn’t have this file, don’t hesitate to create one).

```yaml
<author_id>:
  name: <full name>
  twitter: <twitter_of_author>
  url: <homepage_of_author>
```
And then use author to specify a single entry or `authors` to specify multiple entries:

```yaml
---
author: <author_id>                     # for single entry
# or
authors: [<author1_id>, <author2_id>]   # for multiple entries
---
````
Having said that, the key author can also identify multiple entries.

*The benefit of reading the author information from the file _data/authors.yml is that the page will have the meta tag twitter:creator, which enriches the Twitter Cards and is good for SEO.*

# Post Description
By default, the first words of the post are used to display on the home page for a list of posts, in the Further Reading section, and in the XML of the RSS feed. If you don’t want to display the auto-generated description for the post, you can customize it using the `description` field in the Front Matter as follows:

```yaml
---
description: Short summary of the post.
---
```
Additionally, the description text will also be displayed under the post title on the post’s page.

## Table of Contents
By default, the Table of Contents (TOC) is displayed on the right panel of the post. If you want to turn it off globally, go to `_config.yml` and set the value of variable `toc` to `false`. If you want to turn off TOC for a specific post, add the following to the post’s Front Matter:

```yaml
---
toc: false
---
```
*A Bug: https://github.com/cotes2020/jekyll-theme-chirpy/issues/1090*
## Comments
The global switch of comments is defined by variable comments.active in the file _config.yml. After selecting a comment system for this variable, comments will be turned on for all posts.

If you want to close the comment for a specific post, add the following to the Front Matter of the post:

```yaml
---
comments: false
---
```
## Learn More
For more information, please refer to the official documentation:

[write-a-new-post](https://chirpy.cotes.page/posts/write-a-new-post/)


